BRAINSTORMING.md, before:

# Brainstorming

## To do

* Allow getting entities by components efficiently

### Transparent game states

It is useful to have multiple game states in a stack rendered. For example, a pause state or an in-game menu state could still have the state below it rendered. The topmost state (e.g. pause, menu) should likely draw a full-screen semi-opaque black rectangle so that the underlying game is marked as inactive.

## Mark entities as dead

Removal of entities should not happen during the game loop. Entities should be marked as dead and be removed at the end of the game loop iteration.

## Triggers

Existence triggers:

* Destroyed (example effect: spawn explosion)
* Created (example effect: spawn flash of light)

Collision triggers:

* Collision start (example effect: decrease health)
* Collision end

Cursor triggers:

* Cursor entered
* Cursor exited
* Mouse pressed
* Mouse released
* Mouse release on entity (example effect: switch to new gamestate)
* Mouse release not on entity
* Mouse dragged

State changes:

* State entered
* State exited

Application triggers:

* Application paused
* Application resumed

Other:

* Position changed

## Research material

* [Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet camera system explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aAKwZt3aXQM)

Commit message:

Add named entities and always-trigger ideas

BRAINSTORMING.md, after:

# Brainstorming

## To do

* Allow getting entities by components efficiently

### Transparent game states

It is useful to have multiple game states in a stack rendered. For example, a pause state or an in-game menu state could still have the state below it rendered. The topmost state (e.g. pause, menu) should likely draw a full-screen semi-opaque black rectangle so that the underlying game is marked as inactive.

## Mark entities as dead

Removal of entities should not happen during the game loop. Entities should be marked as dead and be removed at the end of the game loop iteration.

## Name entities

Giving entities a name is useful for debugging purposes.

## Triggers

Existence triggers:

* Destroyed (example effect: spawn explosion)
* Created (example effect: spawn flash of light)

Collision triggers:

* Collision start (example effect: decrease health)
* Collision end

Cursor triggers:

* Cursor entered
* Cursor exited
* Mouse pressed
* Mouse released
* Mouse release on entity (example effect: switch to new gamestate)
* Mouse release not on entity
* Mouse dragged

State changes:

* State entered
* State exited

Application triggers:

* Application paused
* Application resumed

Other:

* Position changed
* Always (this might be more of a custom behavior though)

## Research material

* [Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet camera system explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aAKwZt3aXQM)
